We have been looking back to our lives, how many beautiful things we have, and also how many
challenging things happen in our lives.
At this time, we have quite a good everything. Looking to the every direction, solemnly to ask, we
are quite blessed.
All these beautiful things. Many different levels, both spiritual level or Dharma level, and as
well as in samsara,
worldly levels, we are quite good. Looking to around the world, we need all these different things.
To look to us, how good things we are, how blessed, how we are fortunate, how are we beautiful
things.
So therefore, as I always said, and it is not something that I say you don't know,
always we need to study joy and appreciation, thankful, grateful, being grateful.
These all are foundation of the Buddha teaching, our practice. What are we going to learn?
There is no Buddha Dharma beside those things. Joy and appreciation, respect.
Respect to yourself, respect to others, being graceful, grateful. They appreciate, glorify.
We don't do those things. Our life will be very convoluted, slim, dark, and everything is not
correct.
These and that things go on and on. It's true, sometimes it all goes on and on.
But we are practicing this. We have to, restenstance, bounce back to our nature, our own nature of
the mind.
Bring joy and appreciation. Through the joy and appreciation, understand the meaning of our nature
and Dharma,
we are going to transcend all those difficult things into the path, into the learning, into the
experience.
Restenstance will find our courage and commitment and understanding.
Are we able to do that? If we do that, that is known as in the Buddha teaching practitioners.
That is known as in Buddha teaching, bodhisattvas, warriors of all the enlightenment.
Warriors for the enlightenment to our self, warriors for the enlightenment to the others.
We are not just only self-conscious, like centered mind, being practiced in Bodhadhana.
We have to also think of others. We act what's called as the wise man's insight.
Also, we know that. You know that. So look. Act locally, think globally.
Think globally, act locally. That's the very wise and the prettiest statements.
That's what we have to do. Think locally. We have to restenstance our self. What are the benefits
to others?
We make ourselves strong and good with joy, with appreciation, with calm, with peaceful, more
relaxed,
more open-hearted mind, and then try to help others according to our readiness and capabilities.
Start with our family members, our friends, our neighbors, as much as you can do.
It's not something that we have to do the authentic things, the authentic things immediately to
help.
Do your capability. Move with the best, the best, the best. More practical.
But every time, bring joy and appreciation and glorify.
Acknowledge to yourself. Have you done something good? Really, it feels good.
It should be happy and joy. I did one of the things. I did good. I will do tomorrow even better
next time.
By the blessings of the Buddhas, in the morning south of all the enlightened things.
Thinking of that, moving forward, that is known as practitioners in Buddhism, practicing dharma.
Practicing dharma is not this kind of self-important, or I'm the spirit, I'm this, this, that, that
things.
And others don't. Practice means bring more beauty, gentle nature, calm and peaceful.
So to start with that, joy and appreciation is number one, and bring gracefully.
We need to agree with that. Then bring, as I said many times, and you know, we all been practicing,
we heard this from our great master thinking for the children many times, then devotions.
Joy and appreciation and devotions. Devotions to all these lineage masters, Buddha, bodhisattva.
How, when you look to them in their teaching, in their life first, how much their heart
and every activity is filled with love, with compassion, with kindness, with patience,
with tolerance, tolerance and thinking, helping to all living beings.
Even they, they take others more important themselves. That's the truth.
That's what the Buddha did when we read life stories, and when we read his teachings.
And all those great masters went one after another, and they stood towards them 500 years in Yurid
ata.
How many great beings came to bring peace and harmony?
To all mankind, all living beings, not just only one group is that.
Their love and compassion and wisdom is pervasive as the sunlight in the sky.
Sun has no partialities. Wherever the opportunity, wherever the circumstances arise,
the sun shines gloriously, beautifully, and dispels the darkness of all the colors.
Similarly, these great masters did that.
Love and compassion are abrasives to every living and graceful.
Same time, humble and simple, down to the earth.
Earth, that is what our role models, that is what we should learn.
And wherever we should meet, more, more how precious, how beautiful it is.
And for more emotions. The emotions are nothing but more feeling of depression,
importance, and respect, and observing that wallet to our heart,
and our mind's stem, so that we will become as that we call it.
Really, truly, we become that one of the beacon of the world.
It's a peace and harmony, joy, and then difficulty.
Whatever they bring, we remove those old things by that our wishes.
That is the thought. We have that even intentions in the Buddha teaching said.
How much powerful, every sincere thing in our heart,
which all living beings are happy in joy, free from trouble, and bring peace.
And if you think that even one moment,
Buddha actually said so many times, he cannot even measure the power and merit of that colors.
That, where that comes from, all that beautiful things.
It's nothing but our own mind, from our mind, from your mind, from my mind.
This is what it means.
So therefore, promote joy and devotion, respect and devotion.
Devotion is, as I said, appreciate, appreciate the feeling and respect, respect.
And same time, also this nugget of devotion goes one right side to yourself.
I have more devotees to yourself.
How I'm going to make, how precious it is, how important, like this it is.
I'm going to, not going, where's this?
This, I'm going to make meaningful of this.
This, really think of that and feel preciousness of this things.
This is what in many times we call basic things, basic.
But basics are the central column of the practice of Dharma.
If we lost the basic, we lost the ground.
We lost the ground, truly.
I'm not talking that story.
It's true.
If we don't have the basic foundation of this joy and appreciate, devotion and bodhicitta,
we lost the ground.
We are lingering on the space.
We won't go far.
But if we rooted strongly on the ground, what I'm discussing,
the joy and appreciation, devotions, and then bodhicitta.
And bodhicitta you all know.
Love and compassion and wisdom.
Combined target, that precious attitude of the mind,
come target as one single state, as bodhicitta.
Love to all living beings, compassion for all living beings,
understanding exactly where things are, combined target.
These three qualities are known, combined target, not as bodhicitta.
Many of you know what bodhicitta means.
It starts to work, bodhicitta.
But if we just let it into finish, mind of enlightenment.
Mind of enlightenment.
Enlightenment not just comes with approval.
Our enlightenment begins right now.
Whenever you have the love and the compassion,
understanding of the exactly where things are,
we begin, we are candle the light of the enlightenment.
We light up.
It's not just dark. We really light that.
Where is that?
In our nature of the mind, in our heart center.
Love and compassion and wisdom is lighting up.
The enlightened begin like that moment.
There are possible footsteps of the total enlightenment.
It begins right with that moment.
Therefore, it is called enlightenment mind.
Enlightenment mind.
Guru Pei Mahasamma said, also in the teaching,
said in a great kenki body here in which many times it's of quotations.
Since these are the prima Buddha minds.
Love, loving kind is the Buddha mind.
Compassion is the Buddha mind.
And wisdom is Buddha mind.
This Buddha mind is right with us.
Right with you. Right with me.
How we have to do?
We have to glorify this.
We have to bring that bright, bright, bright, bright and brightly.
And that shines all over the world.
All over the space and beyond the space.
When you become that, that is known as full enlightenment.
Full enlightenment, completely enlightened.
That is right.
But at this time, our love and compassion and wisdom are just light.
Just Friday light.
We have to glorify it.
Heart with joy, with devotion, with courage, with commitment.
That is the whole practice.
I told you to speak these things because we are just going to put more teachings on the dhara.
What is dhara? Again.